docs/topics/simplification.md, before:

Simplifying shapes
==================

Here are a few examples related to the Planet Developers Blog deep dive into
[simplifying areas of interest](https://developers.planet.com/blog/2022/Dec/15/simplifying-your-complex-area-of-interest-a-planet-developers-deep-dive/).
The examples use a 25-feature shapefile. You can get it from [rmnp.zip](https://github.com/planetlabs/fio-planet/files/10045442/rmnp.zip) or access
it in a streaming fashion as shown in the examples below.

Counting vertices in a feature collection
-----------------------------------------

The builtin `vertex_count` function, in conjunction with fio-map's `--raw`
option, prints out the number of vertices in each feature. The default for
fio-map is to wrap the result of every evaluated expression in a GeoJSON
feature; `--raw` disables this. The program jq provides a nice way of summing
the sequence of numbers.

```
fio cat zip+https://github.com/planetlabs/fio-planet/files/10045442/rmnp.zip \
| fio map 'vertex_count g' --raw \
| jq -s 'add'
28915
```

Here's what the RMNP wilderness patrol zones features look like in QGIS.

![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33697/202820493-2cae58f4-a968-4078-8a60-ba7e2cbe0434.png)

Counting vertices after making a simplified buffer
--------------------------------------------------

One traditional way of simplifying an area of interest is to buffer and
simplify. There's no need to use jq here because fio-reduce prints out a
sequence of exactly one feature. The effectiveness of this method depends a bit
on the nature of the data, especially the distance between vertices.

```
fio cat zip+https://github.com/planetlabs/fio-planet/files/10045442/rmnp.zip \
| fio reduce 'unary_union c' \
| fio map 'simplify (buffer g 0.001) 0.001' \
| fio map 'vertex_count g' --raw
274
```

![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33697/202821086-5bfd4437-3c42-420e-84cf-d3e1287d2d8c.png)

Counting vertices after dissolving convex hulls of features
-----------------------------------------------------------

Convex hulls are an easy means of simplification. There are no distance
parameters to tweak. The `--dump-parts` option of fio-map turns the parts of
multi-part features into separate single-part features. This is one of the ways
in which fio-map can multiply its inputs, printing out more features than it
receives.

```
fio cat zip+https://github.com/planetlabs/fio-planet/files/10045442/rmnp.zip \
| fio map 'convex_hull g' --dump-parts \
| fio reduce 'unary_union c' \
| fio map 'vertex_count g' --raw
157
```

![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33697/202820595-491c590c-0f5a-4cdb-89de-7cd2067cbf90.png)

Counting vertices after dissolving concave hulls of features
------------------------------------------------------------

Convex hulls simplify, but also dilate concave areas of interest. This can be
undesirable. Concave hulls inflate your areas less.

```
fio cat zip+https://github.com/planetlabs/fio-planet/files/10045442/rmnp.zip \
| fio map 'concave_hull g 0.4' --dump-parts \
| fio reduce 'unary_union c' \
| fio map 'vertex_count g' --raw
301
```

![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33697/218189621-446b743e-daba-4e3c-bc24-7ce74771fb8a.png)

Commit message:

Update simplification topic to use meters

docs/topics/simplification.md, after:

Sizing up and simplifying shapes with fio-planet
================================================

Here are a few examples related to the Planet Developers Blog deep dive into
[simplifying areas of interest](https://developers.planet.com/blog/2022/Dec/15/simplifying-your-complex-area-of-interest-a-planet-developers-deep-dive/).
The examples use a 25-feature shapefile. You can get it from [rmnp.zip](https://github.com/planetlabs/fio-planet/files/10045442/rmnp.zip) or access
it in a streaming fashion as shown in the examples below.

Counting vertices in a feature collection
-----------------------------------------

The builtin `vertex_count` function, in conjunction with fio-map's `--raw`
option, prints out the number of vertices in each feature. The default for
fio-map is to wrap the result of every evaluated expression in a GeoJSON
feature; `--raw` disables this. The program jq provides a nice way of summing
the sequence of numbers.

```
fio cat zip+https://github.com/planetlabs/fio-planet/files/10045442/rmnp.zip \
| fio map 'vertex_count g' --raw \
| jq -s 'add'
28915
```

Here's what the RMNP wilderness patrol zones features look like in QGIS.

![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33697/202820493-2cae58f4-a968-4078-8a60-ba7e2cbe0434.png)

Counting vertices after making a simplified buffer
--------------------------------------------------

One traditional way of simplifying an area of interest is to buffer and
simplify. There's no need to use jq here because fio-reduce prints out a
sequence of exactly one feature. The effectiveness of this method depends a bit
on the nature of the data, especially the distance between vertices. The total
length of the perimeters of all zones is 889 kilometers.

```
fio cat zip+https://github.com/planetlabs/fio-planet/files/10045442/rmnp.zip \
| fio map 'length g' --raw \
| jq -s 'add'
889332.0900809917
```

The mean distance between vertices on the edges of zones is 889332 / 28915, or
30.7 meters.  You need to buffer and simplify by this value or more to get a
significant reduction in the number of vertices. Choosing 40 as a buffer
distance and simplification tolerance results in a shape with 469 vertices.
It's a suitable area of interest for Planet APIs that require this number to be
less than 500.

```
fio cat zip+https://github.com/planetlabs/fio-planet/files/10045442/rmnp.zip \
| fio reduce 'unary_union c' \
| fio map 'simplify (buffer g 40) 40' \
| fio map 'vertex_count g' --raw
469
```

![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33697/202821086-5bfd4437-3c42-420e-84cf-d3e1287d2d8c.png)

Counting vertices after dissolving convex hulls of features
-----------------------------------------------------------

Convex hulls are an easy means of simplification. There are no distance
parameters to tweak. The `--dump-parts` option of fio-map turns the parts of
multi-part features into separate single-part features. This is one of the ways
in which fio-map can multiply its inputs, printing out more features than it
receives.

```
fio cat zip+https://github.com/planetlabs/fio-planet/files/10045442/rmnp.zip \
| fio map 'convex_hull g' --dump-parts \
| fio reduce 'unary_union c' \
| fio map 'vertex_count g' --raw
157
```

![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33697/202820595-491c590c-0f5a-4cdb-89de-7cd2067cbf90.png)

Counting vertices after dissolving concave hulls of features
------------------------------------------------------------

Convex hulls simplify, but also dilate concave areas of interest. They fill the
"bays", so to speak, and this can be undesirable. Concave hulls do a better job
at preserving the concave nature of a shape and result in a smaller increase of
area.

```
fio cat zip+https://github.com/planetlabs/fio-planet/files/10045442/rmnp.zip \
| fio map 'concave_hull g :ratio 0.4' --dump-parts \
| fio reduce 'unary_union c' \
| fio map 'vertex_count g' --raw
301
```

![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33697/218189621-446b743e-daba-4e3c-bc24-7ce74771fb8a.png)
